come on you can go faster than that
can't you
so you've just got your brand new pc and
you want to do some overclocking but
that like
that tiny air cooler that you have is
just not doing it so
you could get like a radiator a pump and
a reservoir but all that's pretty damn
expensive so
what if you just buy the block
and hook it up to your sink
well
linus said that's a bad idea but
he's on vacation so uh we're gonna do it
let's do it yeah
[Music]
madrina's coffee blends specialty cold
brew coffees into 15-ounce grab-and-go
cans for your convenience check them out
and use offer code linus to save 40
at the link below so
first thing we need to do here is just
get some baseline reading so what do we
have in here jake so this is a intel
core i9 7900x we got a titan x p
uh not p but pascal same thing we got
ax1500i which is super overkill but
really what we need to look at is the
temperatures here so in the hottest core
we're looking at about 56 degrees this
is at the stock clock
um so i guess should we overclock it
first no let's wait until we get the
sink going right yeah let's just see how
it performs compared to the sink and go
from there and that's what that 360 ml
ek water blocks rad
oh oh
that's my favorite technique
just give her a good blow some stamina
here
jesus
dude i don't think it's gonna seal very
well does it even stick to this does it
matter though
i bet you if we put a fitting on that
end of the tube it would be easier to
like mate the two metal surfaces
together
oh why did you let it go
all right let's get stuck in the sink
i'm going to get another fitting this
guy what an amateur hey
i got it we don't need jake okay we're
just
we're just doing it
yeah
we most certainly
do oh geez
this is a bad idea i'm gonna go get some
tuck tape because i don't think that
your tape is good enough dude what
happened last time you used tuck tape is
there video footage of that it's leaking
yeah it got dropped
it was fine until we put it under
pressure it was fine until it like
needed to work and then it didn't
i don't think they engineered this
around being able to do this okay
so do you want to hold it and i'll tape
it
uh sure let's cut a piece off here
what are you taping now it's our return
our return valve
prevent that
perfect
cool
hurricane
and i guess you you don't have to wait
for this to get up to equilibrium either
right yeah there's no equilibrium the
water's not re-circulating we're just at
it
oh my gosh
so at idle we're sitting at about 14
degrees
four
so just how you get sub-ambient you
remember that stuff it shouldn't go up
it's gonna go up some like a bit like
i'm my guess is
average that's really good though oh my
god okay so we're getting
hottest core as of right now is 40
degrees
which is what like 16 below what it was
before yeah 56 i think was the hottest
core before
how's it going it's good do you like
your water cooling
what is it
it's the best thing you've seen all day
coming out of the
tap yeah yeah
what's wrong with that
waste
well
it's it's not too bad but look but look
at our temperatures
our hottest core on the 7900x is 40
degrees
that's not very many degrees
wow riley you're so insightful i guess
this is the best way to watercool a pc
after all
are you ready three
two
one go you gotta keep it straight
okay so we're gonna have to measure rate
from the bottom of the meniscus
here
and stop
so that was
11.8 seconds
we'll be um using 150 liters per hour
so
let's
i think before we overclock that we can
take this to the next extreme how is it
going to get better than this
so we can't hook it up to the fridge
well but you know what we can do with
the fridge
we can just take yonder bucket of water
okay so i'm kind of missing but
you get the idea
so yeah we've got this
22 submersible pump so the idea is
basically we have a bucket we fill it
with ice
we put the pump
into the bucket of ice
then
sink goes to bucket goes to pump goes to
the thing goes back to thing drains into
the sink
oh we want that we want that over here
why what what what is with you and
putting the water back in the thing
because we're going to have really cold
water so you want to have the cold water
kind of like
doing its thing in here yeah then we're
just dumping hot water into the cold
like we're it's not going to get like
above ambien
the time it goes through there all right
fine and i don't think we can keep up
with the pump with this oh this is true
is there a speed setting on there
all right so oh my god
pump is getting plugged in
now
is that pump supposed to be submerged
yes oh wow dude that thing is kicking
water dude these lines are so cold
already
we're going to kill the cpu for sure no
this board is going to be done
so we're sitting at about oh subscribe
dude we have a finite amount of time
before this but yeah we're looking at
about three
three-ish degrees
so it's still sub-ambient oh
no okay so it's 22 degrees in here
yeah our hottest core at the moment is
24 degrees so we aren't sub-ambient
we're damn close like we're doing better
than we did with the chiller and so like
the total cost of this whole thing
would be like
a cheap aliexpress block you can get
those for like 15 to 20 bucks and then
22 dollars for the pump you could
probably find a cheaper one
and we are a solid what
30 degrees slower we wrapped 56 before
more than 30 degrees lower
than a triple rad from ek
five gigahertz baby
90 degrees
oh my god wait what i think cinebench
just keeps crashing
so
i think that we need more voltage we
have 1.4 volts what do you mean we can't
do more voltage it's crashing and the
answer to crashing is more voltage
i think we need anthony uh hey anthony
we need you
we don't know how to overclock
oh
you know how to overflow okay kinda yeah
sure
yep we're gonna we're gonna leave this
up to you okay
see that's that's what i was hoping that
non-committal answer would prevent but
okay okay see you later enjoy buddy
okay okay that's the thing all right so
let's go ida
the voltage so sitting at max of 11
degrees at the moment our uh
voltage is 1.375 and one point or two
point one five input uh hey it's working
ah damn it
doesn't work it's crashing no it dropped
down to one point oh actually
oh it does work hey look at this
there we go so we got a little lower
voltage but we're basically
at similar temperatures to what we
started with except we're at five
gigahertz now
instead of 3.9
come on baby oh
damn it
dude there's so much water on those
tubes now
oh yeah geez
we don't have much time oh 4.8 ah
come on baby
oh you you can do it
we're at 101 on one core
yeah so it's immediately overheating
we're still at 4.8 baby
no we can drop the voltage to like
1.35 i guess i am concerned this is a
processor
yeah it might just not be a very good
overclocker
i'm just so disappointed yeah well
sometimes you can't have nice things i
guess that's part of the story right you
bought all the stuff you can't just go
return your cpu because well actually
you can definitely do that because
amazon but
you're not supposed to just return your
cpu because it doesn't overclock well
so i guess we'll get to the best we can
get oh i had xmp on oh
so
sweet
do you think that would hurt it
yeah
[Music]
david oh
oh
oh we're screen capping ah
did i do it did i do it what did you
change
i changed everything to auto
wait what's our wait wait go go back to
our thing what is our
we're at 4.3
why did it
what what
okay so well this is disappointing
all right
4.8 baby
it's uh how did this
that's how you overclock x299 so there's
no way at all that this could be done
with just regular water cooling no
was that like 4.4 maybe 4.5 this right
here is definitely like what you put in
your forum post you're like yeah this so
it works then yeah if you just want to
get another four or five hundred
megahertz to hopefully 500 6 000 yeah
maybe 60 88 yeah almost 6 100. i think
we can push it a little further you
think we can go further i think we're at
93 degrees there
well
i think i'll try to leave the voltage
another 100 megahertz i'm gonna give her
i'm gonna give her
1.385
oh god it just turned off
uh
let's unplug it
oh
maybe it was fine our last kick at the
can if we can't do this then oh
oh holy oh it's doing it
no it's not it's done no it's done
so it's conclusion time i guess
if your goal is to just get the craziest
in a bench score craziest 3d mark
maybe plug it into a sync is the way to
go
yeah this worked surprisingly well like
and d lid yeah yeah
because we absolutely destroyed the
triple rad
and the whole thing cost like 50 bucks
and you could probably do it for cheaper
yeah if you get an aquarium pump from
like a hardware store you could probably
or used buy one used actually don't do
it yeah
probably don't do you need to create a
beautiful website without the hassle
well check out squarespace their all in
one platform makes it easy to get up and
running quickly they've got
award-winning templates that you can use
as a starting point for a wide range of
projects if you need additional help
squarespace offers webinars a full
series of help guides or you can even
talk to their customer support via live
chat and email 24 7 and they've got tons
of great tools like if you already have
a third party domain you don't have to
give it up just transfer it over to
squarespace on top of that they include
e-commerce features to help you sell
merch or services online and easily
manage your inventory and orders so head
over to squarespace.com forward slash
ltt to get 10 off your first purchase
thanks for watching uh if you
dislike this i don't know just wait
until linus gets back i guess and
we won't do things that are quite this
dumb but uh if you did like it hit like
get subscribed uh check out oh where to
buy things below i guess submergeable
submersible pump and some ice like
that's like merch like that yeah merch
i'm actually wearing it and uh yeah for
the forum yeah so you can post your dank
scores yeah please don't ever do this
but if you do
tag at what is your twitter alex the
greatish alex the greatish and at jakku
underscore tv because we want to see
the madness
please nobody show linus this
it's not dead though yeah it's wait is
it still on
no
the light is still on
god we should turn it off yeah we should
really turn it off